read, but it's pretty.
Jacques Fabien-Gaultier, that's J-A-C-Q-U-E-S, Fabien-F-A-B-I-A-N-Gaultier, G-A-U-T-I-E-R, D-apostrophe-A-G-O-T-Y, right?
And that is, let me just write this term, planning out the illustration processes, kind of as they evolve, you think that it makes the
anatomical illustration necessarily more precise.
And yet, here is somebody who, to my way of thinking, this is actually not precise.
This is much more what I would consider artistic anatomy.
And if you go to Shulang, Shulang actually is kind of negative on this book.
It's considered to be not good anatomy.
And yet, I love to open it up for the students, because they're going, wow, wow.
And I say, no, this is bad anatomy.
And they all just laugh.
But look, she is a beautiful woman.
And he was alert to that, wasn't he?
Well, yeah.
I mean, there's also something a little intriguing.
Even by the way some of the heads and stuff you see is almost as if, well, you know, oh, here I am.
My brain is open for you.
We'd love to talk to him about some of this stuff.
Decidedly pre-40 until...
I think he may have been a very twisted person, actually.
I mean, he's sitting duck for these people, for these analysts.
That's right.
And I don't think a lot of people know about this work.
I mean, some people, but I think it's still to be studied.
Did you tell me the title of it?
I think it's a very long title.
Oh, just something that I could, just so I know.
Okay.
Wow.
You're Darwin Letters.
Darwin, original letters.
So what we're going to do is we're going to have a lot of things.
Substantive?
Yeah, I believe, I want to say like maybe 40 or 50 of them.
A fairly large number.
But we actually are going to be, we have and will continue to be included in the correspondence of Darwin, the complete correspondence of this coming out.
This is our regular, this is a regular.
So I know this is,
This is just the regular stacks here, so this is something that anybody can enter.
But the rare books here, of course, is special.
If you can imagine this, we have had some leakage, but it's way under control because there has been a problem with flooding.
So what we've got here, just to give you an idea, most of the things that are in these ranges going this way,
are alphabetically arranged, and these are, again, rare books ranging in all kinds of time period.
For instance, Oliver Wendell Holmes.
That's what we have.
Poems.
Yeah.
That's right.
And obviously here, you see Hunter venereal disease, like I told you.
So this is all alphabetically arranged, and can go anywhere back in time, although we wouldn't have incannabula here in this area.
And this is quite extensive, you'll see.
We have older journals, so like we have complete runs of many, many journals.
So these are all under control on us, too.
We get a lot of requests for this information.
Are you digitizing anything, or you're not up to that yet?
Some of our stuff is online, some of it isn't.
Here is, this is still like, this is the beginnings of the alphabetical web of collection.
More folio sorts of things, and again we have...
Well, you know, like, I'm sure you've heard of Agricola, that's a very well-known piece, History of Science and Technology, everything going all the way back.
We even have some facsimiles here that we use.
Which would be the Leonardo da Vinci material.
This is not original.
Now, this piece, I hesitate to pull this out for you, but this piece is an albinus.
I don't know if you've ever seen his famous anatomy, but it's absolutely gorgeous.
Again, this is a box created by Eon, so both are the same way downstairs.
It's a beautiful box.
But again, the format of it is so huge, it's hard to open up.
No, there's no place to do it.
We have no space here.
But anyway, so this is all, I'm standing in whatever folios here.
I did want to show you... You have a halon system in here, I can see.
Well, we had a problem.
Our halon went off recently, so it just had to be recharged.
And it was recharged with used halon.
Because you can't get new hail on them.
I still don't understand how you have used hail on them.
Anyway, these are all herbals.
This whole smear here.
This is all herbals.
And so they're arranged, obviously, by size and also... Are they used?
Again, it's a very specialized collection.
Not so many, although I know that the art people with the Cleveland Institute of Art use it.
Medical students don't seem to see it.
See, again, we have the Blackwell.
This is another version of the Blackwell that I showed you.
very briefly down Elizabeth Blackwell herbal two volumes large I know and some of them I mean it's actually you wouldn't even call those folios size they're larger than folios well you know we have I think this is Gerard's oh Gerard's herbal is a nice book yeah so I'm sure you've heard of that Sandy Berger once that's one of the he's the William Morris collector and he wanted you know for apparently that influence Morris yeah
And every time he saw it, it was always more than he wanted to pay.
The rare collection for most, but we have other pockets of things up here, but no, I don't, if you want to go down the south, I have to lock up.
Okay, gotcha.
1811.
Okay, I'm sorry, just for the sake of the tape, let's start.
You can just identify yourself for my tape.
Okay.
The Western Reserve Reserve Society.
And yourself as well.
And I'm Kermit Pegg, the library director.
Okay.
And you're saying this is the oldest?
This is the oldest existing cultural institution in Cleveland.
It was founded in 1867, primarily as a library, with the mission to collect and preserve whatever relates to the history, biographies, statistics, and antiquities, and genealogy connected with the city of Cleveland, the Western Reserve, the state of Ohio, and the Great West.
And is it affiliated with any university?
It is a private institution.
It's privately funded.
It was when it was founded in 1867 and continues today as a privately funded institution.
Oh, good.
I like that.
So from 1867, the mission was primarily to service, collect, preserve the early documents, the founding, the settlement, the exploration of the Western Reserve, which is northeast of Ohio.
Right.
And who were the founders?
Founders were people like Colonel Charles Whittlesey, Charles Keenan D. Baldwin, Alfred Thayer Goodman, who was an autograph collector.
An autograph collector.
Charles Whittlesey, who was a soldier and geologist, geographer, man-maker.
Actually, what they had is they had a coterie of learned individuals in Cleveland that assembled and met in a log cabin in Public Square, a log cabin which is referred to as the Ark.
And this group of gentlemen was known as the Arkites, Leonard K's, Jared Potter, Kerr.
A-R-C-I-T-E-S.
A-R-K.
Oh, the Ark, like in Noah.
The Ark.
I think of the Ark in terms of.
And this group was founded.
and organized informally, and they used, as the story goes, they'd sit around in this log cabin on Cleveland's public square and smoke cigars, play with, and talk about where it's subject.
So this is the beginnings, and out of this group emanated the Western Reserve Historical Society, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, the Cleveland Public Library, all of the major cultural institutions in Cleveland grew out of these seeds.
zone in the ark.
Were there any seed collections, or was it basically money and resources?
No, no.
It was mainly, it wasn't so much money as it was commitment, enthusiasm, drive, mission, individuals that, you know, of an interest in history.
This is, don't forget, this is 1867.
This is right after the Civil War.
350,000 Ohioans fought in the Civil War.
Tremendous turmoil of evil in this nation.
caused more mature individuals after the war to say, gee, what's happened to us?
We've lost sight of our roots.
Let's get back to what makes this country great.
So there was a great looking backwards retrospective view.
And at that time, there were still descendants of the original settlers.
Cleveland was founded in 1796, the city.
So there were still descendants of the original settlers.
I didn't realize it was that early.
That early, yeah.
And the descendants of the original Cleveland surveying party and early settlers, a couple of them were still alive then.
But many of their children and grandchildren and in-laws were alive, so they were able to contact those people and gather maps and documents and letters and documents.
Primary stuff.
Primary material, which we did for about the first 35 years.
And how is the focus?
Maybe you can just give me some idea about the holdings that you have and how the collections have developed.
Well, the holdings, being privately funded, we've never had a substantial amount of money to purchase things, so the institution has grown to the current state largely through the generosity of individuals who have either donated collections or who have
They provided purchased collections for the library, or the community just donated regional archives and books and histories and so forth.
But so, in terms of numbers of things, is that reflected in this little thing?
Yeah, it's in the brochure, but it's about 230,000 volumes we have.
Manuscript collections are about, we estimate, you know, I estimate five miles of manuscripts, over 20,000 when you're
Could you characterize them, what are they basically?
This is the primary American history research library in Northern Ohio.
The collection is American history in general with the focal point on Northeast Ohio, the Western Reserve.
Do you understand what the Western Reserve is?
I understand that.
Barb explained it to me.
It's fascinating.
I'm embarrassed that I didn't know it.
Well, there's no reason why you should anymore, because— Well, I'm a New Englander.
I should.
Well, interestingly enough, it's us who care more.
We look backward.
See, New England looks backward, so they look to England for their history.
We look to New England for our history.
So we know more about Connecticut than Connecticut people do.
You know, it's just the way—hey, we're more interested in history, and in fact, the Western Reserve
It's bigger than Connecticut.
It has more people than Connecticut.
Politically, it's more significant.
And on and on.
I mean, this stepchild in the state of Connecticut has surpassed... As the United States of America certainly has more people than, you know, the mother country, so to speak.
But this was a plot of land that the state sold, you know, to benefit the school fund.
But in any event, that...
That Connecticut sold?
Yes.
To benefit its?
School fund.
The proceeds from the sale of the three million acres went into the public school fund in Connecticut.
And this was when?
About 40 cents an acre, 1795-96.
The land was actually sold to the shareholders.
The shareholders of Connecticut all got together, and 48 of them pooled their money and bought for about $3 million all the way down.
Actually, not even $3 million, more like a million in the house.
Well, they were smart to sell it because they wouldn't have kept it anyway.
They would have lost it.
That's right.
Well, it wasn't theirs to sell them.
That's fallen money.
They pulled it off.
They told the federal government.
The government says, well, you've got to cede your claims to that western land.
And Connecticut and a few other states held out, and Connecticut says, well, we'll cede everything but.
this three million acres because we're going to hold on to that.
And so they did.
And the federal government then, in the 1800s, recognized it and said, okay.
$2 million.
Why not?
And so it went out of—then, for all intents and purposes, the Western Reserve then gets merged into the state of Ohio, becomes Trumbull County in Ohio, and the Western Reserve has a political end and it disappears.
So the only way it has any meaning now is through nostalgia and tradition.
But it's wonderful that there's an institution that preserves the name.
And we're the one.
You would never hear about Western Reserve if it wasn't for two things, us and the university.
Yeah, that's great.
Western Reserve University, which is now Keith, Western Reserve University, and the Western Reserve Historical Society.
We actually ended up perpetuating that kind of concept.
That's great.
And so we continue to be focused on those areas in terms of the history we've preserved.
preserve.
But then also in terms of what we do is we are principally the archival repository for Northeast Ohio.
So we collect papers of families and individuals and businesses and organizations, any kind of human activity.
So it really is focused on the region, unlike the AAS, in my neck of the woods, which is in Worcester, by the Massachusetts Historical Society.
The essence of our
Well, Massachusetts is Massachusetts.
But the Mass Historical Society actually has stuff from all over the country.
We have newspapers from every state in the area.
We have a genealogy collection, which is national, one of the five largest genealogical collections in the country.
So how do you justify that in terms of the collection?
I admire this.
Don't misunderstand me.
Well, so do I. The institution has been greatly influenced by the trustees and members, the people who have supported it, and who have donated it to collections.
You pulled out of this library
All of the collections that were once privately held and or were acquired through funds established by wealth equivalents.
This library would be half of what it is today.
Our national reputation resides on things like the William P. Palmer Civil War collection, the Wallace H. Cathcart Shaker collection.
You heard of the Shaker collection?
No, but do you have some literature that you can give me that will summarize this stuff?
This material?
Sure.
I love that little... We are preparing for an auction.
We have a library benefit auction.
Oh, good.
Barbara is my primary host.
Your primary host is the sponsor of this auction, which we're going to... That's a lovely office.
Trevor, do you have a card that I can have, too?
As a matter of fact, I didn't know what really you were going to be interested in, but I got it.
I'm interested in everything.
You got interest in everything, okay.
Well, here's an article with Manuscripts Magazine, an article that I wrote on the Shaker Collection, the Caspard Shaker Collection, which if you want to pursue that, and here Jim Gilreich did one on the collection.
Well, he was an intern here.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Here's a little history of the thing.
Here's a little insight for an overview.
of the Cathcart collection.
Here's one on Palmer, the Civil War collection.
I think those are the main things.
You know what you could be wonderful is you could give me a folder like this, not that one, because it's raining out.
So the collection was influenced greatly by the private collectors of Cleveland.
David Z. Norton, Napoleona collection.
So we have a great, large collection.
The library of Napoleona, manuscripts, Napoleon.
People come in the library and say, when was Napoleon in Cleveland?
They're looking for some logic, some reason.
Well, there isn't any.
Charles King costume collection.
Because this, the Western Reserve's Throat Society was not unlike all the other antiquarian and, you know, learned societies in the late 19th century.
They were all doing it.
you know, primarily men of some wealth.
Well, you're looking at the AAS that's an Indian mummy.
Great.
What the hell are we going to do with this?
Well, excuse me, we had the first mummy west of the Allegheny Mountains here at the Western Reserve Historical State, because our president, Liberty Holden, went to Egypt, was encouraged to go there and finance, you know, a party, a little, it wouldn't be a surveying party, but a little visit out in the desert, and the natives had, some years earlier,
discover a cache of about 80 mummies, so that when the wealthy Americans were going out there, they would make sure that they, you know, had the pleasure of discovering a mummy, and then they would spend a lot of money, and meanwhile, this mummy came back to Cleveland.
We had it here until a few years ago.
We sent them down at Tennessee, to the university where they have a center for, you know, Egypt-Palatine.
These things require, oh, let's see.
The sign out there, they require a little bit more sensitivity.
Yeah, exactly.
But still, I think it was a very appealing thing, and it was one of the, along with the Tinkerbell, the mummy.
What's the Tinkerbell?
The Tinkerbell is the boat that Robert Manry sailed from Velma's master, Velma, England in 1965.
Thirteen and a half foot swoop across the ocean, first person to do that.
So I was a pretty powerful fellow, so... Oh, I was here.
So I was working in Ohio then?
Yes, in Cleveland.
Worked for the Cleveland Press.
He was a pressman, and... But sailed the boat and became a national hero.
So you have... So we have the boat, the Tinkerbell, and the mummy.
These are things that are associated with society, so that... Because when everybody was a school kid, they came here, and they saw the mummy.
The mummy's the one thing they can't do.
They've forgotten.
the dioramas, the Cleveland history, all the rest of it, but they remember the mummies.
Well, that's the reason the Boston Athenaeum took their book out that was bound in human skin.
The content is really abominable, but it was always the binding.
Well, the funny thing about the mummy was that we sent it in 1937, sent it to the Cleveland Clinic, and it was x-rayed, and they identified it as
so-and-so or Egyptian prince that was x-rayed again 15 years ago and identified as, re-identified as somebody else, the earlier one.
The attribution keeps changing on the mummy, so it became a little bit of a... But how does, how do things... This institution, is it like other institutions in the United States?
I'm really interested in book culture in Cleveland.
It's going to be a case study.
A Gentle Madness is not going to cover the compass line.
This new book is not going to cover the box, the compass, the way my first book did.
And I'm hoping, and I think I can do something just in Cleveland.
Collectors, libraries, book culture, awareness, you know, just this.
You see what I'm saying?
So this fits in.
Do you know about Lockhart?
No.
The bookstore in Cleveland?
Lowcock?
I do like that, yeah.
I have no chance to get to it.
Oh, uh, yeah.
We did the, uh, North Carolina Booksellers did a reprint of an article that was published.
You should have that, the story of Lowcock.
Uh, because this is, yeah, I could probably put my hands on it.
Um, I did an introduction to it for the, uh, Nob's, uh, it was their keepsake one year.
But talking about book culture, this was the principal bookstore in Cleveland from 13.
And it was a little known, I mean, it was, it got lost.
The story of Laukoff got lost.
And fortunately, a fellow in Carondale, Illinois, in their library newsletter, or literary newsletter, published this reminiscence of Laukoff's book Cleveland.
And it just came as a refreshing to all of us who had just heard of Laukoff's, but to get the insight into it.
the bookstore, and the book culture, because that was the principal place prior to Peter Kaisalbaugh, Pink Whitman, as a bookstore.
Well, I am familiar with him.
Yeah.
Right.
Well, Alcock was the generation before.
Is there something published?
Yes.
And you can get back to me.
If not today, you can send it to me again.
He got a great record again.
1990.
Great.
But so tell me about... So talking about the book culture, yeah.
What is your book going to be on?
Kent Smith Library.
Stuff where?
Yeah, in the Kent L. Smith, the new university library that's built here because you walk up the steps, you walk up into the main entrance and you see this, you know, kind of a very imposing sandstone or granite structure.
It fits in with the decor of Severance Hall and the other granite.
ancient buildings on campus, and you walk into the area, and you'll pass through the security gates, and you look around, and you'll see glass-enclosed offices and buildings, and you'll see workstations like this with little wall outlets to plug in things, and you go a little further, and you'll see a little display case with some artifacts in it.
and you will have walked into this place and you still won't realize you're no longer because there are no books that's fair yeah there are no books period and then you walk a little bit further and then you'll see then you'll see the compact shelving and everything is on contact shelving so essentially what does that mean well it's this mechanical shelving that all folds together so that when you look at it all you see is the
the metal panel on the movable shelving.
This here?
Yeah.
How far over there?
It's just right down the street.
Are there books in there?
What's in there?
Well, then you go a little bit further, and there are books.
But the stated objective of the university's director of this development in the Library of the Future is to have everything machine-readable.
Have everything on computers, full text.
What's this fellow said?
No.
Bob Cheshire.
Oh, man, this guy's the enemy of books.
I don't think I'd get into this with him.
Yeah, absolutely.
He's the foremost proponent of libraries of the future.
He wrote the book.
No, let me back up.
He did not write the book.
He is implementing the book.
Like nobody else.
Well, I should say, he's implementing the computer at the expense of the book, let me put it down.
So is he deaccessioning?
It's not, it's not, no.
What's the guy's name, James Niff?
Yeah, no.
And what's his position?
I'm not sure what his title is.
He's a vice president.
He's a vice president in charge of, you know, information and... At Case Western Reserve.
Yeah, Case Western Reserve University.
Yeah, he would be a very interesting person.
Well, because it was... Say that his vision is Ray Neff.
I'm sorry, Ray Neff.
Ray.
Raymond or Ray?
R-A-Y.
Raymond Neff, N-E-F-F.
You got a phone number there?
I have 368-1024.
368-1024.
It's West Reserve University.
Does it give his title there?
No.
I just, that's my role.
Okay.
Um...
I'm sure he's in the Universal Director.
You'll see, Bob.
Let Bob tell you about it.
Bob knows who better than I do.
But my background is history and archives.
I'm basically a history major.
From where?
Over here?
And from reserve as a student.
But I, you know, came here, became curator of manuscripts, and I've done a couple of guides to our archival collections.
And, you know, that's my focus, but went to this meeting at which Ray Neff talked about the library of the future.
He spoke about it?
Yes.
Is he on the record?
Well, no, he's in charge of the library program that is served, and his goal was to have all information on computer machine-readable so that it would be unnecessary for a case student to have to leave their dorm room.
That was the example that he gave.
Unnecessary to leave the dorm room.
That they could go to their computer terminal and read Shakespeare, order a pizza, call home, do what other essential things they need to do all on the computer terminal.
And so that is the goal.
That's the direction.
So that all the data will be scanned in over all the keyword and subject access,
and you won't have put up with interlibrary loans and possible weights, you know, plowing through endless card catalogs, missing books, buying books, paying exorbitant rates for books, scholarly journals.
He states this.
Oh, yeah, that's what he said.
And they've gone, and that was, let's just say that was five years ago, six years ago, and they've made strides in that direction.
And as the whole world is now with computer, you know, with Lexus and some of the other systems that are out there in the databases where legal journal articles are available on Computer Terminal, I mean, it's the direction.
R-L-I-N, 20 million titles.
I went to a little, you know, a luncheon meeting the other day where they did a word about copyright, your book.
It goes out, how are they going to copyright it?
Well, they developed a software.
Newsoft now has the program.
to protect copyright.
So it goes up on the screen, it's scanned, it goes up on the screen, goes into the reserved reading room, you know, on the shelf, which is now on the computer, the student dials it up, and then they want to make a copy of it, boom, you have to hit a button, the button says, what's your student ID, put in your copy card, put in your Universal MasterCard or, you know, credit card,
And it gets debited.
It gets debited at the end.
That's right.
At the end of the semester, then the computer will total up all the items that were recorded, number of pages copied, where all these do, and then you just... Is this all available?
Newsoft.
Specialty is... Integrated copyright.
...copyright and intellectual property management.
so that you can put things on reserve.
Students can call them up, but every time they print them, just like every time you get a copy of them, every time they print them up, it's recorded.
At the end of the quarter of the semester, those are totaled up, pre-agreed between the publisher and the university.
The university acts as a little bit of a middleman here, but the university, they want to do this.
They should, because people like me are going to start saying, I'm getting screwed.
But I say, well, screw you.
Why should we do it?
We're a library.
Why do we have to police the use of the material?
Well, because if you're acting as an accessory to making... The university says, but we don't want a lawsuit.
Which you would get, inevitably.
We don't want a lawsuit.
So we will spend whatever outrageous sums of money it takes to fend off
the one in a million chance that somebody's going to sue us.
I don't think it's one in a million.
Or, how could you be an accessory?
Well, and I've got to be, I've got to confess to being something of a hammer.
You know what I mean?
You could make a copy for yourself.
You know, you make a copy, you know, I mean, that was tolerated.
Now what the publishers are objecting to is universities making, you know,
Or professors making 17, 50 copies pass them out to a student, you know, instead of buying the book or buying the thing.
And then what do they do?
They jack up the book prices, you know, so if you're paying 50 or 75 or 100 dollars for a book.
You know, we work.
I don't get yours in a book.
You want to make a living off it.
But in any event, this company says, hey, we can solve the problem.
We can do this problem.
So the universities are looking at it.
Plus, this university now is trying to develop a system to so-called watermark documents so that they can't be copied.
And I think I've heard of that.
Well, they've got a system that they've implemented over here.
Stanford has that.
That's right.
Because he's actually publishing books out there without printing them.
Stanford University Press is actually doing books that are really only available online.
You've heard of the new school in Monterey, at Fort Ord, that the California State University System has put up, and the old Army base there, the Marine base.
Yeah, Fort Ord I've heard of.
Yeah, well, there's a library, there's a lot of new books in it.
It's, you know, it's not liberal arts by any means, it's a sciences or whatever, but they actually opened a new school, a lot of library in the equation.
I mean, a library in the conventional senses is a repository for books, where students can come in and get books.
No books.
What do you think of that?
That's kind of what you're saying.
It's happening everywhere, but you have some who are a bit more aggressive, I guess, and this guy Neff sounds like he might just be, you know, in that basic issue.
He's otherwise is very mild mannered, very presentable.
other than this one quirk in his personality.
And so how do you feel about this, this whole, without even talking about him personally?
No, no, I'm only teasing.
No, I, you know, I don't, I, you know, I think, as you're saying, I have a lot of admiration for the creative genius, the people that can think in these terms, but I think some of the propositions at the far end are just not well-founded.
The basic problem being
I've come from the archives end of it, okay?
Archives, I look for permanence, credibility.
You know, why is the Depression of Independence in the Constitution of the United States, why are they preserved in terrorism?
What's the purpose?
Is it nostalgia?
No.
It's truth.
It's reality.
This, these are the documents.
What you're seeing on that computer screen,
It might be the document, but it might not.
Somebody might have changed a couple of words to make it sound better.
Put it in a comment.
Come on.
You know, what, the permanent self, accuracy, truthfulness, yet to be determined, and very much unacceptable and unavailable on computers.
You can't believe what you see.
There's no way of guaranteeing authenticity.
Number two, preservation.
There's no assurances that any of it will be preserved.
Landsets, weather satellites, 17 years, 100, how many million bits of information, all lost.
Pewter tapes deteriorated.
No longer any machinery available to read it.
There are instance over instance of federal and privately funded projects.
In this very library, we had surveys that were done, studies of census population census,
data from two counties in northeast Ohio that were done on a computer that is no longer available.
So that this data is no longer readable.
There are things in the National Archive that are unretrievable now.
Exactly.
Everybody thought it was so cool.
Everybody is rushing like a bunch of sheep with to the slaughter.
It just, to me,
You know, as an observer trying to pull away from this thing, I say, it is just unbelievable.
I, Nick Fassbanks, cannot read stuff that I wrote on my first computer, which is an eagle, you know, a whole formative thing.
I don't know how the hell I want to do that.
The stuff I saved just on disk, I might as well throw it away.
But if Nick can't read his own stuff, you know, so I say tough.
But when the federal government is losing records of people, birth, social security,
military records.
I mean, we run the risk of some potentially really devastating losses of information that with using use of traditional sources has been available and accessible to us.
Access to information.
Access to information has been a key component, you know, in this country's growth and development, you know, as a free nation.
And I think
computer data, computer-based information, anything but free.
It's still very illegal, as you know.
There's very limited access to it.
I mean, for heaven's sakes, it will always remain that way.
There was something in the New York Times a couple of weeks ago.
I'll have to read the Times regularly.
No.
They're putting up things in the, you know, sort of bored ghetto areas.
It keeps going in there.
That's right.
They teach you how to look the Internet.
I just don't see it.
Is anything more than an exercise?
That's how goofy things are.
You know, it's just being old-fashioned.
But some of the public libraries like San Francisco, and I suspect everyone will do the same, will provide you free access to the internet.
Okay.
Yes, right.
So you get free access to the internet.
The museums are catching on.
The museum director was at a conference that Bob Jackson hosted two weeks ago.
And the director of the Oberlin Art Institute says they're putting all their stuff on the internet.
You know, they're putting a picture and a description of it, you know, an image of the artwork itself.
And it's going to be, why is anybody going to come to the museum anymore?
Well, we think they're going to come because they're going to want to see the original.
So what does a museum become?
An archive.
You know, a repository for originals.
What I say is, oh, that ain't bad.
Because in reality, that's what should be happening.
You know, the archives.
Archives.
Preserving the originals.
I'm just going to write something down.
Is that Jim Brown?
Yeah.
Is that a sign?
That's one of them.
Is your hero?
Oh, he and Ted Williams.
Yeah.
Oh, really?
The only two.
Yeah.
We have very few athletes and people are interested in sports here in the society.
So it's been one of the sad things in my life.
You can't even get a bowling team together here.
A lot along a basketball team.
Is this kind of like, you know, the AAS in Massachusetts?
Is this kind of a similar thing?
Well, I would say that historically we were.
I think about when we built this library, we probably made a little bit more of an effort than they have to go public, to be a public institution by promoting genealogy.
And that's the one thing that I decided to do 25 years ago.
How long have you been here?
30 years.
You take me 30 years.
How long have you been here in this position?
Well, I started off as a research assistant in 65.
and became acting head of the library in 68, library director in 75.
I mean, I've been essentially running it for a long time, but I've had all these different types of it.
But when I came here, I was the fourth employee in the library, and now we have 22.
So, I mean, we have... So, do you have a clear sense of... You obviously have a clear sense of your role in the function.
Oh, no.
Well, I think now my role is a little bit different than what it was.
In the beginning it was to do everything, to collect and learn everything and to run everything.
Now I have a competent staff and now the challenge are two things, development, fundraising, collection development, working with U.S.
Senators for their papers.
congressmen and, you know, some of the luminaries, serving as a liaison, raising money and motivation, keeping the place fun to work at.
And what have been some of the acquisitions that you're most proud of?
Well, most of them are archival collections that individuals who at one time said, you know, like, over my dead body and 20 years later we get the papers
One of the collections that I negotiated for over 20 years was the papers of William Gwynne Mather.
And if you do the book, Business in Cleveland and all, you know that William Gwynne Mather amassed the Great Mather collection.
Our Mather, right?
Yeah, right.
Built a great collection.
Pointed to Massachusetts over my shoulder.
Yeah, over your shoulder.
West to Toledo.
That's right.
That William Goymatter, the one that hired the Thomas J. Holmes, that did all the wonderful bibliographies, those were done here at William Goymatter, one of the great libraries, including William Goymatter.
I didn't know that.
The AES has the library library, most of it.
There's a lot of stuff in the rest of the story of the society.
But the library, you know, one of the greatest private libraries was William Glenbather, and he hired a librarian, Thomas G. Holmes, to maintain his library and to write these bibliographies, which are beautiful.
We have a couple coming up in our auction, our benefit auction.
Oh, really?
So what kinds of things are you selling?
Well, books, Americana, print.
These are all donations to the library for the benefit auction.
Bob Jackson twists the arms of his friends to give us books, and we got a donation of Palladio's books of architecture, 1738 edition.
It's a wonderful book, a very nice book, and some popularity.
Uh, 200, yeah, 200 items.
We take mail bids.
The catalog will be out on Monday, auctions November 21st.
But, uh, where are we going, Mather?
Oh, so the Mather papers.
Anyhow, his, uh, his stepson was real hesitant to turn over the files, not sure what would happen to them.
I first approached them in 69, and it wasn't until about 1990 that we fucking finally, uh, consented to develop enough trust in us
Part of the challenge of this job is being privately funded and having a mission, which we have with.
Nobody's telling us what to do.
Nobody's telling the society what to do.
There's no higher authority other than our Board of Trustees who said and decided, we're going to collect and preserve it and make it available.
Why?
Because we want to, not because we have to.
How does it fit into the society?
bring it up into this other context, the clean wind, and the attitude of book culture, the ethos, and all that stuff.
Well, I think it's, well... Is it reflective of an attitude here that really is, that really is committed to the intellects, to history, to... The support of the cultural institutions, the very existence of two of the six greatest museums in America.
The Art Museum and Natural History Museum, so appointed and voted by, you know, some reporters of the New York Times polls in three or four years ago.
Two of the six top museums in the country.
The largest accumulation of medical, cultural, educational facilities in the world, right here in the university circle.
What, medical, cultural?
Medical, cultural education.
Cleveland Clinic, oh, there's nothing to compare with it.
There's over 50 cultural institutions.
in this 600-acre plot of land with the university, the Art Institute, the Music Institute.
See, we're all here.
It's the largest concentration.
How did that happen?
How much time?
Well, give me a sound bite.
You know, well, how did it happen?
Well, is there a cultural history of Cleveland?
Yes.
That I could look up.
Well, you know, tell me, and I'll look it up when I get home.
You were saying something about this concentration of cultural institutions, this nucleus, and I guess you're about to say how this fits into that whole... Am I doing something?
Am I listening to somebody trying to write?
Listen, talk, and write at the same time.
I do it.
I know.
I can tell you're a personality that can handle it.
So you must have... Yes.
How did it come to be formed or organized here?
I don't think there was as much of a plan or any master plan that anyone had.
until the university moved here in the 1980s, about 1880 or thereabouts.
Case West Reserve was West Reserve University.
It was in Hudson, Ohio.
Decided to make the big move up to Cleveland, and it was headquartered here then in what was the Dones Corners, the Dones Creek area.
And then, when the university
was moved out here, as it grew in the next few years, it became a focal point of Euclid Avenue, so that what happened is Euclid Avenue came down, the residential area, which it grew in the heights, the traffic came down, so the planners developed, the road was literally a circle at the end of Euclid Avenue as you went from downtown Cleveland out to the country, which was the university.
And so there was a streetcar circle.
and then a road circle for the vehicles, automobiles, and then that.
So that was the university and then the circle, and then other institutions as they developed.
And this was developing, I'm sorry, go ahead for a second.
Yeah, I mean, as the university developed and then other institutions either came into being or were looking for a place to move, the naturally gravitated
to this area, where there was available land, first of all.
You know, there's a number of factors that are involved in it.
Of course.
Historical society moves out.
But this is, you're telling me about a time when Chicago was fancying itself as the Athens of the Midwest, you know, and you're pretty close to Chicago in terms of, you know, not that far away.
Right.
Are you suggesting that maybe the real action was here and not Chicago in terms of?
No, no.
That reality didn't become until later when the Art Museum and the Natural History Museum in its current form didn't get constituted until 1920.
So this is a more recent phenomenon.
The clinic gets organized in the 20s, Cleveland Clinic.
Cleveland Clinic.
That's part of this complex.
So you have Cleveland Clinic, the Cleveland Clinic, Case Western Reserve University, University Hospitals.
These are three major institutions that kind of anchor this facility.
this area this isn't historical say well this isn't like the circle says we have at home well in fact we are the largest uh privately funded historical and the funding comes from private sources
endowment get requests memberships no state no federal no local chicago gets a million dollars a year from the chicago historical from the park board to support this operation we get no state county uh local or federal subsidies okay and our annual budget is in the vicinity of six million hours more than that's historical yes i don't know how big mass historical is but it's
It would probably be maybe as big as the library.
We have the History Museum.
We have the Crawford Auto Aviation Museum.
We have sites.
Yeah, we have properties around that.
Your organization?
The West Reserve Service Center.
Yeah, we have Hale Farm and Village, Pioneer Village.
But this is all part of what you do.
Oh, it's all part of this whole operation.
Yeah.
I mean, you're in the library.
Let me put it this way.
Western Reserve Historical Society.
What's this one?
Go ahead, I'm listening.
Western Reserve Historical Society.
Library.
History Museum.
Crawford Auto Aviation Museum.
Sites and properties.
Hale Farm.
Properties being Hale Farm.
Shandy Hall, Unionville.
Shandy Hall and Unionville.
Lockhurst.
And President James J. Garfield's home in Maryland, Ohio, which we operate.
We owned it and gave the National Park Service now so that they can maintain it as a presidential site, but we still own the patents in the library, the presidential library.
James Garfield, that's something that's new.
And it's here at the West Virginia Works website.
So we're big.
We're multifaceted.
We have plans now to move part of our operation, the Cooperative Transportation Museum, downtown next to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
A popular ride.
bring it to the people.
Interactive.
All those words.
Big kind.
And it's coming to us.
So what we're trying to do, we're trying to modernize by getting a computer.
I mean, we have computers for internal office management, but we're trying to get the cataloging now, you know, our cataloging machinery and do retrospective cataloging.
One thing I feel strongly about that the computer is very helpful for
disseminating bibliographic information by Sir Holdings.
We want to, like the library, the museum down overland says, you know, we'll send it out there because people want to see the original.
I believe that.
There's nothing that will replace the original.
We will continue to collect paper records and paper books.
They continue to be produced at record-setting levels.
1970, I went to American Archivist Convention.
And there were two data processes.
Data processing was terminology back in 1970.
And the data processor said, well, we have some bad news for your archivist.
In ten years, you're going to be obsolete.
There won't be any need for archivists because the office of the future will be paperless.
That was the prediction.
So we've been doing coming from the equivalent of the computer bureaus today, that the office of the future will be paperless.
And the reality is we don't have less paper.
We have more paper.
And then they say, well, the paper doesn't mean as much, but it does mean as much.
I just had a gay and lesbian archive brochure.
The reality is the gay and lesbian community in large measure still communicates with one another on paper.
They do flyers.
They have parades.
They take to the streets.
They produce broadsides.
They keep minutes of meetings.
They write.
They correspond.
They do records.
that the grassroots history, in large measure, is still largely documentable by... Now, you just say gay lesbians as an example of a group.
It's not a group, you say, but that does everything on paper.
Or is it something that this... No, no, it's over and over.
It's abortion.
You know, it's a lot of the advocacy groups, a lot of the neighborhood groups, neighborhood associations.
Do you think because they feel it incumbent upon themselves to document everything?
No, I'm just saying that when they go about doing their normal course of activity, they are still producing documents.
They're still communicating on paper.
That are worth preserving.
And that's what we're doing.
And they are not, you know, ephemeral items that... They are ephemeral items, but they have to be preserved as...
That's part of our history.
I do.
See, I mean, you know, I'm not a lesbian and gay, but the lesbian and gay community is part of the history of this community of which I'm a part.
So we have a very broad view.
What's killing us, the Western Jewish Historical Society, the library in particular, is that we have such an expansive, inclusive view of history.
We have special programs, as we call them, lesbian and gay, we do a brochure.
Black history, we do a brochure.
Jewish history, we have a brochure and a staff.
staff specialists in Jewish history and black history and ethnic history, because we're being privately funded, we try to take these themes around which we can build some popular appeal, attract and raise some money to get some staff to do this work.
You don't pay people.
If you say, well, I'm here to collect the manuscripts and archives, well, nobody cares, but, you know, to try and generate support.
And furthermore,
So that the Western Reserve Historical Society, an ancient and honorable institution reputed to be Republican, exclusive, racist, waspish, just like all those typical New England modern societies were all those years, you know?
How do you break that image?
That's right.
And just, yeah, absolutely.
Wait a minute, you know?
So I remember, I would.
one who's tried to start back in 1970, started with the Blancistry Arcade.
I think that, you know, this... And it sounds self-serving.
But I think the interesting thing about the society... Well, in 19... No, but in 19... You know, I'm trying to be objective about it, because I'm, you know, basically an historian in art.
I just happen to be stuck in this job, you know?
And I'd rather be on the outside, you know, writing about it or telling them what to do.
But since I have the responsibility,
But it was, in 1965, being hired as the first non-Mayflower descendant to be a professional employee of the Society, you know, with no ancient honorable roots even past the 1900s.
My grandfather came in 1903, and I'm Italian and Slovenian.
To be hired was quite an achievement.
I came to... I came to Rio.
Pike.
Well, my grandmother, my dad's mom was Puccini.
I thought you were Italian.
Yeah, Puccini, and then my wife's all Italian, so, you know, basically.
So, yeah, it's great to me.
The point was, as I came to learn later, it was quite a breakthrough, but it just came in stride to me.
Because I was graduating from Reserve, 1965, I was going to graduate, 1964 thing, and I've just been married, my wife's pregnant, I'm in graduate school.
I go to the dean, I say, Dean, I've got a problem.
I'm married, no wife's expecting, I need a job.
Can I have any ideas?
Can you imagine that?
Married, wife's expecting, I don't even have a job.
Today the kid's got to be 30 years old and have a hundred grand in the bank before they'll get married.
I've just been through the Civil Rights Movement, went to a parochial education in St.
Philip's High School.
No black.
I met one black when I was in college.
In 1965, I graduated.
In 1970, I proposed, wrote the proposal to create the Black History Archives Project, which was, we were the first historical site in the country to hire a black professional.
There were no blacks in 1970, can you imagine, in the historical society business.
They worked at the black colleges, Morehouse-Spingarn Collection, you know the great
collections, but they weren't in Cleveland in Chicago and in the normal, you know, of community and regional institutions.
And I remember driving back with the executive director of the Historical Society in 1968 when we went after the, we were going after the suggestion of William Luckenberg wrote biographies of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
And he wrote a letter and said, I went to the papers of Robert Bulkley.
And he was a senator from Ohio.
And I got the letter and said, gee, well, we should have Senator Bulkley's papers.
How come we don't need them?
But I went to the phone book and found out where Bulkley lived, called him while he had died, but I talked with his widow.
Gee, we sure like to have Senator's papers.
Do you have any that have survived?
He died many years earlier.
She says, well, I do have them out in the garage.
Why don't you come and get them?
So the director and I drove out there, and I had been two years on the job, so I'm all charged up and excited about it.
And we can go to her house in Brad and all, and phone the drive, and load the papers in the trunk, and after some pleasantries, we're driving back down Liberty Boulevard, and the director turns to me and says, well, Craig, this is quite an occasion.
I said, oh, really?
I said, well, why is that?
He said, well, do you realize what we have in the trunk of my car?
He said, Mr. Parker, you have papers of Robert J. Baugley.
He was a senator.
He says, yeah, but do you realize he was a Democrat?
And these are the first Democrats' papers to come to the Western Reserve Historical Society.
And I said, gee, Mr. Calkin, no, I didn't realize that.
I didn't know anything about the collection at the time.
And I said, gee, well, if you think that's something, wait until we get the women's collections and the labor collections and ethnics in here.
And he just kind of rolled his eyes.
I'll never forget it.
And batten down the hatches because he was from Mainline Philadelphia Society himself, National Archives, Meredith Calkin.
wrote books on genealogy.
He was the first genealogy and local history specialist at the National Archives.
He was in the Genealogy Hall of Fame, a great guy, a great genealogist of the old school.
So he kind of represented a New England and patriotic tradition that one would associate with a historical society.
But when I went out in the community and said, you know, we want your papers, Polish, Slovenian, Lithuanian, what have you.
They said, the Western Reserve.
Are you interested in us?
And I would say, of course we are.
I mean, you contribute to the history of this community.
Oh, really?
Oh, well, we're honored.
What we took on that.
Did you do this on your own?
Yeah.
Well, there was nobody here at the time.
I mean, you know, this was a long time ago.
But you were allowed to establish the direction.
That's why I'm saying they had tremendous latitude.
Now you know why I'm still here.
Because I had tremendous latitude then and still do.
in terms of opportunities to, you know, achieve objectives.
But it's all based on doing the job.
And you answer to a board, I guess.
I answer to an executive director of the overall society.
But the library's been in a relatively ambiable position because we have had some success ever since this building was built.
And we opened in 1984.
We've kind of been on a roll.
We've gotten a lot of large grants and staffing.
We see the activity in the reading room.
We're averaging 78 people a day doing research here.
We have a lot of friends, like Bob Jackson, who could be somewhere else, but he's chairing a committee to raise the money for our library.
The key thing about Cleveland, incredible generosity, support for those cultural institutions, willingness to donate.
We're going to raise $60,000, $70,000 at this auction, all from things that people donated, so that the proceeds would benefit.
This is just money.
These are things that people could have taken and gone down to a bookstore, or could have sent to Swan, or could have sent to Christie's, and just pocketed the money.
They are willing to support this institution.
Well, which I think speaks a lot for this institution.
And they support all the rest of them.
But it's the spirit of cleaning.
What could support it?
What maintains all those institutions?
And, you know, 99% of them are privately funded.
So it's all donations, subscriptions, people that visit.
And it's a competitive environment.
You know, with rock and roll now, the university in several areas kind of competing with downtown Cleveland, the draw people, Kendon.
But yet it's a very, you know, it's a very cooperative environment.
It's a very pleasant environment with outstanding libraries, natural history, botanical garden, wonderful library, historical society, Allen, all these special libraries with their special collections.
We tend to be the repository that supplements.
You know, if the University Hospital does its own archives, fine.
If it doesn't, then we'll do it.
So we're encouraging institutions more and more to take care of their own records, their own history.